# Analysis of Snow Cover and Snow Cover Duration in Central Asia
Snow is one of the essential factors in the cryosphere and very sensitive to global climate change, especially in the arid and semi-arid regions of Central Asia. Locally and regionally, snow limits wild animals' wintertime access to forage, influencing migration and hibernation. Seasonal snow cover acts as efficient insulation as well as a natural water reservoir, storing solid precipitation in winter and releasing it during the spring and summer melt. Across the world, more than a billion people rely on snow as a resource for drinking water, irrigation, and/or hydroelectric power. Significant changes in how long snow persists on the ground can change the timing and amount of available water for communities dependent on snowmelt. Snow cover is measured in duration, meaning how many days a particular place is covered by snow. This analysis investigated how long the snow covered lasted each year and if that behavior has been changing for ten hydrological years from 2012 to 2022 for a study region loacted in Central Asia.

# Study Region - Central Asia
The study region was defined by the MODIS tile h23v04, which is located in Central Asia and covers the corner region of seven countries (Russia, Mongolia, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and China). It includes the entire Tianshan Mountains in the South as well as the Altai Mountain Range in the North with the Zhunge’er Basin in between. Over 80% of the precipitation concentrates on the mountainous areas, providing crucial water resources for this arid and semiarid region. The snow cover and snow cover accumulation differs significantly due to complex topography, various land types as well as varying climate regimes.

# Data
